Yes, festival week.
This is where I come into my own.
I love a good festival.
I mean, it's not really
Sandi's cup of tea.
[Sandi] Noel, Noel, Noel!
-What you doing in there?
-Are we there yet?
I thought the bag felt heavy.
I thought it was all the food I packed.
Oh, no, no, I've eaten that.
I did, however, bring blueberries.
Why would you bring blueberries?
It's a festival,
I thought there might be a jam session.
Oh, no. Can you not mention blueberries
when we're backstage?
-You'll ruin my cool reputation.
-Oh, too late.
[Sandi] This week...
-Yes!
-[Sandi] ...it's celebratory baking...
Don't look.
[Sandi] ...with festive buns
from around the world...
-[Noel] What are you doing?
-I'm rolling my balls around on the table.
[Sandi] ...Sicilian party pastries
in the Technical...
No one ever thought,
"I need to sieve some cheese."
[Sandi] ...and a colourful Showstopper...
I don't know what temperature
to have it at.
-[Sandi] ...with layer...
-Burning. Burning, burning, burning.
[Sandi] ...upon layer of pressure.
-[David] Not good.
-[Rosie] What?
This is a disaster, isn't it?
[theme music playing]
[indistinct chatter]
[Michael] I didn't think I'd make
week one, never mind week seven.
I'm glad I got Star Baker
before the rise of Steph.
[Steph] The fact that I've been
Star Baker three times, it's pressure,
but you're forever
just on to the next thing.
[Alice] I haven't practised as much
as I'd have liked to. [laughs]
I had to mark 180 exam papers,
and I've written 150 reports.
[laughs] It's been a hard week.
[Noel] Hello, bakers.
Welcome back to the tent.
-It's festival week!
-Hooray!
And for your Signature Challenge today,
you're gonna be making festival buns.
The judges would like
24 yeasted festival buns.
They should be your version
of the celebratory breads
you might find at festivals such as Eid,
or Christmas, Hanukkah, Diwali.
Basically, each bun must tell a story.
And that story is probably, "Oh, no,
someone with blue eyes is eating me!
-Help!"
-Okay, no spoilers,
-thank you, Noel.
-[Noel] Sorry.
-You've got three hours.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
-Bake!
[David] Let the magic happen.
[Alice] I'm activating my yeast.
Smells really yeasty.
Smells like a brewery.
[Paul] The bakers have gotta
produce 24 festival buns.
They can represent any country
in the world.
They can have pretty much anything in
as long as it's related to a festival.
But they've got to get them
beautifully light,
airy and full of flavour,
and pack a punch.
The most obvious festival bun to us
is the hot cross bun at Easter.
These buns have to be yeasted,
but they could have spice in there,
or other flavours.
What I'm after is uniform,
beautifully flavoured,
beautifully textured
absolutely delicious buns.
So, I'm doing a take on a hot cross bun.
Orange and lemon zest and plenty of spice.
Easter time.
[Noel] Steph's festive buns will also be
filled with cranberries and sultanas,
and when it comes to her flavours,
she's hoping to live up
to her triple Star Baker status.
[Steph] So, this'll be
the cinnamon going in.
I hope the spices come through
enough in it.
I've made so many hot cross buns
this week. Just to try and nail it really.
[Sandi] Michael and Alice...
[Alice] Come on, do your thing.
[Sandi] ...are also attempting
their own spins on the Easter classic.
There's a few of us that have gone
for hot cross buns this week.
I mean, Easter, to me, it reminds me
of spending time with my grandparents.
And just kind of, like, springtime baking,
and I thought something a bit fresh,
erm, trying to put a bit of a twist on it.
So I'm doing, yeah, lemon, blueberry
and almond, erm, hot cross buns.
[Noel] Alice's buns will feature
fresh and freeze-dried blueberries,
and they'll be finished
with a lemon curd glaze.
-You're glazing it with lemon curd?
-Yes.
How does that work, then?
[Alice] So it's, er, got quite like a...
if I heat it up, it's runny enough
to kind of spread over the bun...
So, is it gonna be sticky to hold?
Yeah. Like a good hot cross bun
should be, yeah.
-Yeah.
-Right, okay. That's interesting.
All right, well, good luck.
Looking forward to it, thank you.
Thank you.
[Sandi] Not content
with just one festive celebration,
Michael's buns are a hybrid of two.
I am making figgy-pudding hot cross buns.
So, I'm pairing the festival of Easter
with the festival of Christmas.
[Noel] Michael's hot cross
between Christmas and Easter buns
will be brushed with a brandy glaze,
served with brandy butter,
and packed full of dried fruit.
Tell us your filling inside your dough?
So, I've got sultanas,
cranberries, dates and apricots,
and they're soaking in some brandy
just now.
I thought figgy pudding had figs in it.
Oh, yes, I've got figs in it as well.
Sorry, I just forgot to say that.
So, how much in total
are you putting in, the fruit?
-Erm, 500 grams. [laughs]
-[Paul] To how much flour?
-To one kilogram of flour.
-[all laughing]
-[Sandi and Paul] That's a lot of fruit.
-[Michael] It's a lot of fruit.
Was that right?
Was it wrong?
-Good luck, anyway.
-Oh, God.
-[Paul] Thank you very much.
-[all laughing]
Still, at least he's left you
feeling confident,
and I think that's the important thing
that's happened here.
-Good luck, Michael.
-Thank you. Oh, I need it.
[Sandi] When it comes to flavouring
enriched dough...
[Steph] The fruits that have gone in,
there's sultanas, cranberries
and mixed peel.
[Sandi] ...careful balance is required...
This is mixed spice,
just to give it a little bit of warmth.
[Sandi] ...as too much
will inhibit the yeast...
[Michael] In practice, they once came out
and they were like bricks.
I'm just tight on time
and I need to get these proving.
[Sandi] ...resulting in tight, dense buns.
These are raisins, I'm trying to make sure
they get nicely divided through the dough.
I am doing kozunak,
which is a Bulgarian Easter bread.
[Sandi] David is adding traditional lemon
and almonds to his Easter bread plaits
to honour his close ties with Bulgaria.
So, my older brother and his wife
live in Bulgaria,
and my partner comes from Bulgaria.
So, Nick's helped me a lot
in kind of talking about flavours,
but then also my sister-in-law in Bulgaria
'cause she bakes them.
There's actual competitions to see
who does the best kozunak.
Mine's gonna win.
[Sandi] Whilst David's celebrating
in Eastern Europe...
[Henry] Get out, get out, get out.
[Sandi]
...Henry is heading north to Sweden.
I am making chocolate kardemummabullar,
which is my favourite word in the world.
And what's the festival?
Cinnamon Bun Day is October the fourth.
What are they celebrating
on October the fourth?
-Just the buns?
-The existence of the bun itself.
-[Paul] The existence of the bun.
-[Henry] The existence of the bun.
[Noel] Henry's swapping cinnamon
for cardamom,
almond and chocolate crème pâtissière
to celebrate his Swedish buns,
and he'll be twisting them
into classic kardemummabullar shapes.
I can see this as being your challenge.
-Henry, Lord of the Buns.
-The buns?
[Noel laughing]
Do you like festivals?
-I've never been to a festival--
-[Noel laughing] Love that about you.
-But I'd love to--
-Not even a book one?
I've been to a book festival. [laughs]
This is now going to prove,
so probably for about 30 minutes.
Go to bed for a bit.
[Sandi] As their dough goes in
for its first prove...
[Michael]
So, this'll prove once like this,
and then I'll prove it again
when they're in their bun shapes.
[Sandi] ...the bakers must move on to
their festive fillings and decorations.
I'm worried about this lemon peel.
It needs to hurry up 'cause it takes
me ages to chop it up into little pieces.
[Noel] Rosie's ensuring her enriched buns
will be oozing with even more richness.
I'm making my namelaka.
-[Sandi] Go back on "namelaka".
-Namelaka.
Hmm, what?
[Rosie] It's a form of pastry cream
made from milk, double cream,
gelatine, lemon zest,
liquid glucose and white chocolate.
Sounds good. I'm looking forward to these.
So these are not rich buns at all,
in any way.
No, there's no calories in them at all,
no, no. They're sort of diet.
-Fat-free.
-Diet ones, yeah.
[Sandi] As well as her Japanese-inspired
lemon and white chocolate namelaka,
Rosie's buns will be filled
with raspberry jam
and elaborately decorated
to look like Mardi Gras peacocks.
-[Noel] Festival peacocks.
-[Rosie] Yeah, obviously.
-Wow.
-That's a thing.
You're a vet,
have you ever worked on a peacock?
-I've never treated a peacock.
-A peacock with a migraine.
-It'd be great to own a peacock.
-Can you get some?
-And just have it...
-Take it for walks, you know.
Yes. Like a '70s pimp with a big collar.
-Two peacocks.
-Hmm. Please do this.
Thing about a mask is
it makes you completely anonymous.
Sorry, who are you?
I'm waiting for Sandi to do a time call.
-Oh, sorry, Prue.
-It's okay, Paul.
Bakers, you are halfway through.
It is working, just slowly.
[Noel] If the bakers don't prove
their enriched dough for long enough...
It's not ready.
[Alice] It's still bouncing back.
[Noel] ...they won't achieve
the light, airy buns
that Paul and Prue are expecting.
It helps if you watch it.
Has Paul gone? Yeah, he's gone.
Not having Paul see me do this.
[Noel] Underproved dough
will be too tight,
and is likely to crack when baked.
[Henry] Right, that's ready.
[Noel] But the bakers are only halfway
to achieving perfect fluffy festival buns.
[Michael] What a lovely dough
to work with.
[Noel] Before they can prove
for a second time,
they need to shape the dough
into 24 identical buns.
It's really hard to get them identical
'cause I twist them.
I can't get every twist the same.
I don't want any kind of blueberries
sticking up.
What are you doing?
Rubbing your buns on the... [laughs]
I'm rolling my balls around on the table.
[David] Horrible doing the plaits
in front of Paul Hollywood.
It's 'cause I'm using a Paul Hollywood
technique that I looked up on YouTube.
[Michael] She still there?
[laughs]
Oh, I don't like it.
[Noel] Wow, what are you doing?
[Henry] I'm having fun.
I'm twisting some buns.
-[Henry] You get the strip.
-[Noel] Yeah.
[Henry] Then I'm giving it
like a little claw.
-[Noel] Yeah.
-And then I just go like that.
Wow. You've blown my mind.
Which one looks the least good,
'cause I've got a spare?
I'd take that one out.
Doesn't look as even as the others.
You're out, mate.
[birds chirping]
Okay, Sandi, I'm just gonna put you
down here for a minute.
I've gotta do a time call.
Bakers, you've got one hour left,
one hour remaining.
Is that okay?
Ugh.
[David] I'm gonna use cling film
just to keep it moist while it proves.
[Steph] So they're just gonna stay here
for a moment.
-[Noel] Panicking?
-[Alice] Just, erm...
-[Noel] Freaking out?
-Yeah.
I heard this on the grapevine
that you've been, er, marking exams.
Oh, my God.
It's been the worst week.
-Is it nice to get back in the tent, then?
-It's fine.
It's... Do you know what,
it's kind of a...
-It's quite relaxing.
-It's a break from marking.
Right, I'm so sorry,
I'm just gonna, erm...
All right, well, good luck. [laughs]
[Michael] I've got to make brandy glaze.
[Steph] This is sugar syrup and spices.
But I will just see that some flavour
has come into it.
Right, I need to make my lemon curd.
That's just honey, maple syrup,
brown sugar, cardamom for the glaze.
It's gonna be very strong.
Can't taste any cardamom.
More cardamom? More.
Nah, chuck 'em back in.
Hi. [laughs]
Are these real peacock feathers?
[Rosie] Yeah. This makes me so happy.
We need a sort of cape,
though, as well, don't we?
Please wear it.
What, wear this for the judging?
-Yeah.
-All right.
I'll wear it for you, yeah?
[Michael] I can't work out
whether they're ready or not.
Hmm. There's a couple
of quite wee ones in here.
[David] Gonna egg-wash them
and then cross them.
Oh, wow, look at that egg.
This is just flour and water.
[Michael] One's a bit squint,
but I'll call it a saltire,
a Scottish one.
Your nose doesn't look right.
Have you got a cold?
-Hay fever.
-Oh, fair enough.
Bakers, you have half an hour,
half an hour.
Right, they're going in.
They look all right,
they will be fine.
Okay, we're gonna go in.
Oh, my heart's racing.
Going in. 200 degrees
for about 18 minutes.
Right, 15 minutes.
[Michael] They've cracked
a wee bit on the top.
I think mine might have been
a little bit underproved.
[Alice] Hide them.
Hide them at the bottom.
[Rosie] They're normally really dark
by this point at home.
[Henry] That's the best thing
I've ever done.
I'm just gonna give them
another 49 seconds.
[Michael] I feel like I want to go in
and get them.
[gasps] They look baked.
Yeah, I'm gonna take 'em out.
About that sort of colour
is what I'm aiming for.
Okay. [exhales sharply]
[David] I've tried to keep them
away from each other,
but some of them have stuck,
so I'll just put the bad ones
in the middle.
They're a bit messy, but they'll do.
[Noel] Bakers, you've only got
five minutes left.
[Sandi] Five, four... Oh, it's...
-Just five.
-...five, five.
Right, I'm gonna glaze in the tin
'cause we've not got time
to do anything else.
The glaze, hopefully,
will give a bit of a kick,
but a lot of the brandy evaporates off.
[Alice] Some of them have exploded.
Let's hope they taste all right, eh?
[Michael] I'm covering my cracks up
with some leaves.
[Alice] Go, go, go.
Sugar, sugar, sugar, sugar.
Bakers, your time is up.
Please take your buns and place them
at the end of your stations.
-[Michael] It's done.
-[Alice] I really wanna eat one of yours.
[Sandi] Paul and Prue
will now decide
if our bakers' festive buns
are worth celebrating.
-[Prue] Hello, David.
-[David] Hello.
[Paul] Hi, David.
[Paul] I think the plaiting
and the shaping look very, very good.
Very good.
Could-- Couple of minutes less, perhaps.
It's just gone a little bit dark there.
[David] Hmm.
[Paul] I don't think they're bad
at all. The shapes are amazing.
[Prue] They look really good, I think.
Nice texture, though.
It's, erm, springy, soft cake.
[Paul] Hmm.
[Prue] I love the flavour of saffron,
it's really good with the sugar on top.
[Paul] That's a well-baked dough.
The structure's good,
the flavour is fantastic.
It just needs that...
a few extra little bits of fruit in there.
-Very good, though. I'm impressed.
-Well done.
[Prue] They are a bit uneven,
aren't they?
Yeah.
[Paul] They will be slightly misshapen
because of the volume of fruit
in there as well,
because you get one with more fruit in it,
it can't grow as much as one that has got
less fruit in. Let's have a look.
[Prue] But they're lovely and shiny.
I like the glaze.
Yeah, the glaze looks good.
Decoration's nice.
It's a little tough, actually.
But I think your flavour is spot-on.
The spices are nicely warming
and balance with the fruit.
-Oh, that's good.
-[Paul] It's very good.
It does taste like figgy pudding.
It's really delicious.
Well, I do think they look very shiny
and very attractive,
and my mouth's watering.
[Paul] They smell amazing,
don't they?
Let's have a look.
The fruit distribution's in there actually
and we didn't see it down the middle,
but you can actually see it properly
in two halves,
when you cut it down the middle.
-The texture's perfect.
-[Prue] The texture's lovely.
Yeah, and they're sticky, you know,
you can feel it on the fingers.
[Prue] It's not too much spice
and it's not too little.
[Paul] Hmm.
-Well done. Well done, Steph.
-Well done, Steph.
[Paul] They're nice
hot cross buns, them.
-[Prue] Well done, Steph.
-[Noel] Yes, well played.
[Paul] I think they all look
similar to each other.
There's a bit more
of a difference in the colours.
[Alice] Hmm.
[Paul] Even side to side.
[Prue] Wow. Well, you've got
your blueberries in the middle.
[Paul] Yeah.
[Prue] Nice texture.
Did you candy the lemon peel?
[Alice] Yes. Took me quite a while.
[Prue] Yeah, it needed a bit more.
[Paul] Quite bitter, isn't it?
The lemon in there.
The sweetness hasn't come out in it.
I also think the lemon curd glaze
is not as attractive
because it's not shiny enough.
Hmm.
[Paul] I think you baked them well,
I just think there's a pretty
irregular colour going on in there.
-[Alice] Hmm.
-[Paul] And size.
Well, they look homemade.
[Prue] They're lovely colour.
[Paul] They look great.
Highly decorative.
I mean, they'd look great
in a shop window, those.
The buns themselves look a bit flattish.
You can see they're sitting quite squat.
I think you've got pretty consistent
on the colour.
And there's a bit of raspberry jam.
[Paul] They're a nice flavour.
I'm...
-I look at that crumb...
-[Rosie] Hmm?
Now, this is where you've dug it out
and you've put this in.
-[Rosie] Yeah.
-See how quite, er,
dense it is down there? Open?
I did have to do it when it was quite hot,
so I was sort of cutting them and then
pressing down with the fork when it was...
So it... Yeah, it's condensed the...
-[Rosie] ...a bit hot, yeah.
-...dough down at the bottom.
[Prue] It's really pleasant.
It's like, erm, sort of almost
doughnut texture, it's nice.
[Paul] I think you've done
a great job.
I think they do look very, very smart.
Thank you very much indeed, Rosie.
-[Prue] Well done, Rosie.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Lovely.
-[Prue] Excellent.
Feel like the momma peacock
and these are all my children.
I'm so happy you put that back on.
I think you've got a pretty stable colour,
you know,
you have irregularities there in the size.
Little bit, yeah.
-Nice idea, though.
-But they really look interesting.
If I saw them in a bakery window,
I'd want to try one.
Hmm, okay.
[Prue] It is delicious.
Oh, thank God.
[Paul] So, I think your flavours
are good.
The proving's good, the bake's good,
the colour's good, the technique's good.
[Prue] Flavour's lovely.
[Paul] Yeah, my only gripe
is the, erm, the size difference.
But nevertheless...
N-- Shut up.
[Paul] Well done, Henry.
[Prue] I don't think
you say "shut up" to the judge.
[Henry] I'm so sorry, sorry.
[Noel] No one's ever told
a handshake to shut up.
-That has made my month.
-[Paul] That was good.
[Henry] I can go now.
I could leave this week
and be happy with that.
I've just achieved a handshake.
I won't wash my hands.
[Michael] Buzzing that Steph and Henry
have got handshakes.
I don't feel like I've done badly,
I just haven't done as well
as other people,
but it's very unlikely that I'm gonna
do well in this Technical.
I am not holding out any hope for this,
but let's just have fun anyway.
[Noel] The bakers were able to practise
their celebratory buns,
but have no idea
what technical mystery lies ahead.
[Sandi] Right, bakers, welcome back.
Time for your Technical Challenge.
Today it's been set for you by Paul.
Any words of advice?
This is about the perfect textures
both inside and out.
Thank you for that. Off you pop.
What are they up to today?
They're going to Paul's soft play area.
Wow, it's a funny thing to call it.
The judges would like you
to make 12 Sicilian cassatelle.
[Sandi] Er, so cassatelle
are typically served at carnevale,
which is, of course,
the Italian word for, erm...
-Slippers?
-No. Ca-- Carnival. Yeah.
-Oh, yeah.
-[Sandi] Yeah, okay.
Your cassatelle are pastry crescents
filled with a smooth and creamy ricotta,
flavoured with chocolate and orange,
and fried until crispy and golden.
They need to be uniform in shape and size.
-Perfect for the carnevale.
-[Sandi] Hmm.
-[chuckles]
-[Noel] You've got an hour and 15.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
Bake!
[David exclaims]
Cassatelle?
No, I've never had these before.
Cassatelle. There we go.
Not even the foggiest clue what it is.
[Steph] It's what looks like
a pasta machine.
[Alice] I guess, almost like ravioli,
but, like, fried and sweet.
Maybe, I don't know.
Cassatelle, basically they're Sicilian
snacks that you'd have at a carnival.
So, inside these beautiful pastries,
we've got ricotta,
we've got chocolate
and we've got orange in there as well.
Where the hard bit is,
is getting the pastry nice and thin,
and overall filling this properly
with the ricotta.
'Cause these look very well-filled
and well-sealed.
[Paul] And the other problem
they're gonna have,
is obviously you've gotta fry it.
If they don't roll their pastry
and it's a bit thick,
-Yeah.
-...as soon as it hits the oil,
chances are it's gonna burst open,
-the ricotta will pour out into the oil.
-Hmm.
-Okay, would you like to try, then, Prue?
-Yeah.
[Paul] So, you can see from the inside,
-it's full of filling.
-Hmm.
I don't wanna crack into one
and have big air holes in there.
It must have that ricotta chocolate
all the way through.
No grittiness, nice and orangey.
That is delicious. [chuckles]
Great with a cup of tea.
I was thinking it'd be great
with a glass of marsala.
You would, though, wouldn't you?
Deep fat fryer to 170.
This is scaring me,
because last time I had to
deal with one of those,
I had this weird thing,
so I'm just trying to make this
a better memory.
So, "For the dough,
make a stiff, pliable dough."
I don't know what kind of dough
it is that I'm making,
and the ingredients don't help with it.
[Alice] Maybe it's more like pasta dough,
which I've never made before, so...
[chuckles]
[Michael] I'm just gonna kind of
bung it all in a bowl
in some sort of order,
and see what happens.
It doesn't say how much water. I've put
a couple of tablespoons in so far.
[Steph] Stiff, pliable. What does it mean?
Not crumbly, bit of stretch?
I think this is quite pliable now.
[Michael] So, knead until smooth.
[David] Yes.
[Michael] Then divide the dough into four.
And that is chilling in the fridge.
I need to sieve the strained ricotta
until smooth, and make the filling.
[Alice] This just takes me back
to dairy week.
[Noel] What are you doing?
I'm trying to get rid of liquid
out of some cheese.
What does it look like I'm doing?
[chuckles]
Oh, yeah, of course. Ricotta, right?
-Ricotta. Look at that, yeah.
-Yes.
Can you tell what I'm doing
without looking at a sheet of paper?
Sicilian cassatelle.
And what's that?
-I don't know.
-No. [laughs]
I wasn't listening
when Sandi was explaining to you
what they are. [laughs]
That's-- A lot of the liquid's now gone,
which is good.
In my head, it was just going...
La, la la, la la la la
Gonna sieve it. Never sieved ricotta.
Ricotta has quite a cheesy,
grainy kind of texture, doesn't it?
So, it might take a couple of sievings.
No one ever thought,
"I need to sieve some cheese."
[Alice sighs] This is the weirdest thing
I've ever done.
Is it meant to do that?
[Rosie] I've put it through
the sieve twice,
so it better feel smooth now.
[David] So I'm just gonna
make the filling.
Got my sieved ricotta,
then some orange zest,
then icing sugar,
and then add some chocolate chips.
[Henry] Now, they said they wanted
all the textures right as well,
so I don't want any whole chocolate chips.
It tastes quite nice.
-How are you?
-I'm stressed.
-What? You got the old handshake.
-I know, but--
[Noel] Come on, talk me through it.
What did it feel like,
his big sausage-y fingers?
What are they like, soft but powerful?
-Powerful.
-Powerful. Manicured?
Soft, pampered...
-I don't know about manicured.
-...but strong.
And then what happened?
When he was holding your grip like that...
-Yeah.
-...did the tent start spinning around?
-Yeah, it did. Right. Shh!
-And Prue levitated up. [laughs]
Bakers, you are halfway through.
What am I doing?
I like that, 'cause I think you took it
seriously and did it with purpose.
Yeah, I think it's about time
-we got serious on this show.
-Yeah.
"Flatten one ball into a rough rectangle,
feed through a pasta machine."
Gonna take a piece of dough.
[Michael] I have used a pasta machine
before to make pasta,
but not pastry.
This is the first time
I've used a pasta machine.
There could be harder things to use
in the world, in fairness. It's a handle.
Oh, sod it.
[handle clatters]
[Michael] Oh, for goodness' sake.
[Rosie] I've made pasta at home once.
It was really good,
I would make it again.
-Erm... yeah.
-[handle clatters]
That can happen.
How does one do this?
[Steph] Oh.
[Henry] Well, I think we can agree,
this is... wrong.
[David] I think we want them quite thin.
[Alice] Is that too thick?
[Steph] I don't know what I'm doing.
What is going on here?
Oh, you can change the settings.
I'm going up one setting each time.
Gradually rolling it thinner,
like I would with pasta.
It's just I need three hands.
-Oh, Sandi's got a hand.
-[Sandi] What?
[Henry] Have you got a hand?
Can you crank? You crank...
-Which way? That way?
-Just... clockwise.
Yeah, that way.
I know what... I know clockwise, darling.
[Henry] Bit faster.
Wow, you're quite bossy. [laughs]
Wouldn't be your girlfriend.
[both laughing]
"And then cut into rounds, fill and seal,
crimp the edges with a fork."
[David] How many we making?
Twelve. Cool.
I need three circles
out of every blob of dough.
So, I feel like that's a bit thick, maybe.
Fill and seal, fill and seal.
Just gotta be careful not to overfill it.
[David] I'm just treating it like
a filled ravioli.
Little bit of water
just to seal the dough...
'cause you don't want it to burst out
in the deep fat fryer.
[Henry] Oh, we've had leakage.
[Alice] Too much. Oh, dear.
Too late now, so...
Nine says to fry. It's a one-word one.
So, we had one other Technical
with a deep fat fryer, and I came last.
-This is time to redeem myself, yeah.
-Right, these need to go on.
[Henry] How hot is this?
[Steph] Don't know how long for yet,
just gonna go in with it.
[David] The pastry's very thin.
So, at three minutes, flip them.
It's trying to sink,
so I'm kind of holding it.
Breathe, Michael, just breathe.
I'm just gonna try and look for colour.
[David] I'm guessing it's meant to be
golden brown, isn't it?
Oh, bloody hell, they puff up, don't they?
[whistles] Jiminy Christmas,
look at that guy having
a little splash about in his Jacuzzi.
The one looks all right.
[Rosie] Shall we take it out
and see if it goes crispy? Let's do that.
-No. Keep it in, keep going.
-I know you wanna just burn things.
Keep going, I'm in...
I've got such an adrenaline rush.
You're really sad.
[Henry] You look done to me.
[David] I'm quite happy.
Do you know, in Whitby, we got the award
for the best fish and chips
in the country one year, so I feel like
I'm doing my town proud as well.
I mean,
they don't make cassatelles, but...
[Rosie] I mean, it is crisp.
I am designating this one as "looks okay".
[Alice] Oh, look, it's bursting open.
[exhales heavily]
Nothing I can really do now,
I have not got time for this.
[Michael] One of mine's
burst as well, Alice.
Mine has completely burst, Michael.
No, one is, like, literally coming back
into a circle again.
[chuckles] I've literally made a taco.
Let's put two more in as well.
I don't want to add any more 'cause that's
gonna lower the temperature of the fat.
I feel like I'm behind,
but I don't know if I am.
How long have we got?
[Sandi] Bakers, you have 15 minutes.
15 minutes.
I don't think you're in shot,
get a bit closer.
-Oh, sorry, thanks.
-That's better.
[Alice] 15 minutes.
These better fry quickly,
that's all I can say.
Can we get two scarves next time?
No.
You know, I'm just gonna bung 'em all in.
There's four there, got two here
that are almost done, which makes six.
[Steph] They are definitely not uniform.
Stay calm.
I'm so far beyond salvage.
[exhales heavily]
A lot of these have decided to open up.
If I do two at a time for a bit.
Turn that up to the highest it will go.
Come on, come on.
[Alice] Far too thick.
They're ruined. Awful.
[Steph] Just going by eye.
[Henry] We'll just start
getting these out.
Four, six, eight, ten.
-[David] Twelve.
-[Alice] Look at them.
[Michael] Desperation stations.
I'm gonna fry them
until the very last minute.
Right, bakers.
[Michael] Take a long time, Sandi,
take a long time.
-[Sandi] Okay. Your time...
-[Noel] Is...
...which is, er, just spelt T-I-M-E.
[Noel] Is...
Is, er, still spelt T-I-M-E...
and, erm, you... are... done!
[Michael exhales heavily]
[sighs] This is a disaster, isn't it?
[Sandi] Please bring your
delicious Sicilian pastries
and place them on the table.
[Noel] Prue and Paul are looking
for 12 beautifully filled,
sealed and fried cassatelle.
[Prue] Hmm.
[Noel] And they'll have no idea
whose is whose.
[Paul] Now, these are okay.
Fairly uniform, and sealed.
I think they look lovely.
[Paul] Let's have a look
at the filling on this.
Could do with a bit more, couldn't it?
[Paul] Yeah, big air holes in there.
-Hmm, great flavour.
-But...
I think it looks lovely, tastes lovely,
could have more filling.
[Paul] But they're a nice shape,
and they're actually well fried as well.
[Prue] Very good.
[Paul] Moving on to these.
I like the crimping, but...
you've lost a bit on some of them.
That filling is so delicious. [chuckling]
It's really good.
It's got a bit of crispiness
to the shell as well.
-[Prue] Mmm.
-[Paul] I like that.
This one's pretty good.
Okay, moving on.
These haven't been sealed properly.
-[Prue] No.
-[Paul] They've popped open in the fryer
and puffed up.
Like some kind of seafood creature.
[Paul laughs] Yeah.
You can see the big air pocket there.
This is very thick, as well,
on the pastry.
-[Prue] And too over-fried.
-Very.
Now, moving on,
similar problem again, not sealed.
A couple have opened up.
Not much filling in there either,
it's all pastry.
The thinner the pastry, they would've
found it easier to seal as well.
Now, these are all over-fried,
but they're all sealed.
They're not actually uniform,
they're not all the same shape.
Solid. Yeah, you can tell straightaway
how thick that is.
It's been cooked all the way through,
but they've had to leave it in there
'cause the pastry's so thick.
But they are all sealed.
And this one looks pretty good,
it's nice and light.
-[Prue] Hmm.
-[Paul] However...
-Same problem.
-[Paul] They've burst again.
But they are quite neat,
so it doesn't look too bad.
[Prue] Oh, and they're quite full, look.
[Paul] Yeah.
Yeah, decent amount of filling.
It's a nice thin pastry as well.
Okay, this'll be interesting.
That'll be number one.
[Sandi] Prue and Paul
will now rank the cassatelle
from worst to best.
In sixth place, we have this one.
That's me.
-Alice, they exploded, didn't they?
-I know.
-[laughs]
-Sorry.
And very uneven.
Fifth spot, we have this one.
Exploded and a little bit soggy as well.
[Sandi] Steph is fourth
and Henry is third.
And then in second place...
we have this one...
which is really good, David.
Very nice, the only thing we found
to complain about at all
was that you had lost the definition
of your fork round the edge,
but otherwise, they were really lovely.
So in first place, Rosie.
[clapping]
Neat, nice fork,
all sealed and full of ricotta.
-Perfect.
-Nice.
Yay. I finally won a technical. Yay.
I've had a bit of a run of fifth.
Fifth, fifth, fifth, fifth, fifth, fifth,
and yay, first. So yeah, super happy.
Second, again. Steph asked me,
she was like, "I think you've got first."
I was like, "No, I repel first.
I think I've got second."
I knew I hadn't done very well. I'm not
particularly confident on tomorrow.
Tomorrow's Showstopper is by far
the hardest challenge
we've had to do in seven weeks.
Not a great end to the day.
It doesn't take a genius to work out
that I'm kind of sitting at the bottom,
so tomorrow, it's gonna be
important that I do well.
[Michael] Oh, it's warm already
in here, isn't it?
[Noel] Just one challenge remains
before Paul and Prue
decide which bakers will make it through
to the quarterfinal
and who will be leaving the tent.
So, yesterday, I think I detected a change
of atmosphere in the tent for the better.
-You were almost smiling.
-Yeah.
Almost.
Can I just say Henry, though,
in his Signature?
-Yeah, just say that.
-He did really well again.
He told me to shut up.
[Noel] "Shut up."
-[Paul] "Shut up."
-[laughing]
Shut the door.
[Prue] I thought it was so sweet.
I thought the Signature was very good,
but to get it done properly,
and it proved it in the Technical,
to get it done properly
is quite difficult.
Because of that Technical, we've got Alice
and Michael down surely at the bottom.
Alice took a bit of a gamble and tried to
do too much almost, and then it...
She is getting more and more disorganised.
The benches that are clean
means in their head they're organised...
Hers is generally a crime scene.
[Sandi] Yeah.
[Noel] And David, he has
little spells where he tidies
everything up.
David is so good at it.
He keeps everything neat as a pin.
I know, but he is neat as a pin.
-Very nice buns.
-[all laughing]
I never thought I'd hear you say that.
[Sandi] Oh, dear.
Hello, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your Showstopper Challenge.
Today the judges would like to see
your take on kek lapis Sarawak.
Okay, so this is a colourful cake
which originates from
the Sarawak region of Malaysia.
It's often used
in religious and cultural celebrations.
Your cake should display even
and precise layers, and be grilled?
-[Sandi] Grilled.
-Grilled?
Wow, the Great British Grill-Off.
When your cake is cut and reassembled,
it should form intricate patterns
that run through it.
You've got 4 hours and 15 minutes
to do that.
-That doesn't sound long enough.
-[Sandi] No. On your marks.
[Noel] Get set.
-[Sandi] Bake!
-Or grill.
I'd heard of Malaysia before.
I hadn't heard of Sarawak or kek or lapis.
[David] In the 1980s,
it was very popular in Indonesia
and they took it across to Sarawak in
Malaysia where they added all the colour.
[Steph] Imagine Battenberg,
but more layered.
Do I feel confident? No. Ha.
The Showstopper this week
is a complicated one.
We've asked the bakers to do
a Sarawak-style layer cake.
They have many, many layers
in many different colours
and different flavours.
They put a thin layer of batter
in a cake tin, grill it for a few minutes,
take it out, more batter, grill it,
however many layers they want,
and then cut it into any shapes they like.
And then they reassemble
those pieces of cake
so that they make a fantastic pattern.
It's very difficult to do.
The bakers would never have made anything
like this before.
I think this is one of the hardest cake
designs to make
and there's nowhere to hide.
We will see the problems.
[Sandi] With multiple cakes to make,
each featuring
layer upon layer of sponge...
I have 14 times 3 eggs.
Yes, that number.
[Sandi] ...this is one of the most complex
challenges ever attempted in the tent.
Ah!
Practising the Showstopper,
I got through 110 eggs in one day.
-[Prue] Hello, Henry.
-How you doing, Henry?
Hello, hello, hello.
-What are you doing?
-I am doing a lemon and lime Sarawak cake.
So, how many layers in each cake?
I've got-- Actually I've got a drawing
'cause I can't explain it.
-Should hopefully look like that.
-[Noel] Oh, wow. Come on.
[Henry] That's the plan.
[Prue] Well, that is beautiful.
If you can pull off that...
[Henry] I'm just gonna bring
this up to the table.
[laughing]
It's probably a mistake to show it
to us because we might be disappointed
if you don't achieve it.
It's a...
There's a great likelihood of that
but I thought you might as well know.
Do you know what you should do?
Once the cakes come out, redraw it
-so it looks exactly the same.
-[Henry] Yeah.
And pretend you didn't see that.
[Sandi] Henry's hoping to bring his design
to life with contrasting blocks
of green- and yellow-coloured layer cake
held together with
raspberry and mint jam,
and flavoured with lime and lemon.
I'm doing six to seven lemons
in each batch,
so if that's not enough lemon zest,
I don't know what I'm gonna do.
[Noel] Not only do Prue and Paul
want to see flawlessly designed cakes...
I'm doing a spice mix called spekkoek,
and it's a mixture of cinnamon, cloves,
cardamom and nutmeg.
[Noel] ...they're expecting our six
remaining bakers to nail their flavours.
I have found that when you're grilling
the cake, the flavours disappear
a lot more than they do in a baked cake,
'cause originally I was putting
various different liqueurs in it.
Couldn't taste a blooming thing.
[Michael] This is a spiced rum.
I've kind of got into my rums recently.
So I've Googled kek lapises quite a lot,
and a lot of them add,
like, an almond liqueur,
so I thought, "Well, rum might work."
And we'll see in about four hours
whether it does.
[Sandi] Michael's spiced rum
will flavour his sponge
along with ginger and lime curd,
and he's hoping to colour and decorate
his cake with green, yellow and black
to represent Jamaica's national flag.
-So, how many layers altogether?
-I do six layers on each cake.
-Yeah.
-Erm, so it should be six, six times four.
-24.
-[Prue] Well done.
-Thank you.
[laughing]
How tentatively was your "24"?
[Sandi] Michael's not the only baker
who's hitting the bottle.
Orange liqueur, yeah, is going into it,
which is my, er,
step-grandma's favourite drink.
I remember her drinking it
and me drinking half of hers every time.
So, I've got to get a bit of her in this.
[Noel] Steph's using her step-gran
Sheila's favourite tipple
to make an orange liqueur syrup
that will hold together her orange
and chai-spiced layered sponge squares.
I was trying to go triangles, but they
were particularly hard to manipulate,
so I've reverted back to lines.
We've all tried to do triangles,
but triangles don't work.
[Sandi] But with her design, Rosie is
going where no other baker has dared.
I've got two eight-layer cakes, and they
will be cut into a square cross-section,
then halved into a triangle,
then halved again into another triangle.
And then reassembled into sort of
a diamond-y pattern.
I've probably taken on too much,
but I do that every single time,
so, I don't learn.
[Sandi] Topped with her second delicate
bird decoration this week,
Rosie's ambitious triangular-patterned
cake will be made up
of multicoloured layers of lemon
and mixed spice sponge.
[Rosie] It's a balancing act
because it's either...
looks beautiful but it's like eggy rubber.
-"Eggy rubber". [laughs]
-And like literally the first one I made,
you could do that
with the whole thing, urgh.
-It was horrible.
-It's a good name for a band.
If I form a band called Eggy Rubber,
will you be in?
I'll sing, you play drums and guitar.
I don't think I want to be
known as "Eggy Rubber".
Come on, me and you, Eggy Rubber.
Like the new Simon and Garfunkel,
but a bit more electronic.
-But Eggy Rubber.
-I'll book us some gigs
in all the festivals.
Okay, Noel.
[Noel] We're supporting Radiohead.
Eggy Rubber.
[Sandi] As well as
perfectly-flavoured sponge,
getting the colours of the cake layers
right is just as crucial.
You can't do a dull one.
I mean, the whole point is they are
really garish, bright,
over-the-top colours.
I'm going for pink, green and yellow.
-[gasps] That's lovely.
-Do you like it?
Well, see, pink, that's not what
I thought pink tasted like.
-Delicious
-Oh, good.
Yeah, I'll come back and clean
the bowl for you later.
Excellent.
Do you want some of this as well?
Oh, just give me... You don't need that.
I've got that, thank you.
Prue...
One of my cakes, it's just two colours.
The other ones are going to be
four different colours.
So, you've got to be careful 'cause
you want to get the colour throughout,
but you want
to mix as minimum as possible.
[Noel] David's contrasting monochrome
and multicoloured cakes
will be flavoured with a traditional
Indonesian spice mix,
brushed with tamarind and honey
and formed into what he hopes will be
a postmodernist work of art.
So I wanted mine to be more like
a sculpture.
I mean, I just love all these colours.
-[Noel] They're beautiful.
-Well, these ones are actually based on
-a Prue Leith necklace from last season.
-[Prue] I don't believe you.
-[Paul] Doesn't surprise me.
-[David] It is, yeah, it is. [laughs]
And then, so I'm doing one black and white
cake and one with these colours.
Does that-- Does that represent me?
The grey.
I mean, it did... Oh, yeah.
There's Prue. There's Noel,
and there's me.
[David] We can go with that.
Wow, I'm wallpaper paste.
This is the nerve-wracking bit.
It's just like a really thin spread.
So it's quite scary when I do it,
I'm like,
"Oh, my God. I'm not gonna have enough."
-Hello, Alice.
-Morning.
-[Prue] Hi, Alice.
-[Alice] How are you?
-Sarawak layer cake, what are you doing?
-Yes.
So, erm, festivals, I am doing a kind of
carnival Sarawak cake, so...
Erm, every year in my hometown we've
got a carnival, and at the end of that
-is a big fireworks display, so...
-What's your hometown?
Burnham-on-Crouch in Essex.
-Essex. Are you an Essex girl?
-I am an Essex girl, yes.
-You don't seem like an Essex girl.
-[Alice chuckles]
Why? What are you trying to say?
-Do you want a spade?
-Huh?
-I think you can stop right now.
-Let's come in again, yeah?
Alice's homage to her hometown festival
will have sugar work fireworks exploding
out of a chocolate, orange
and salted caramel cake
in a kaleidoscope of coloured layers.
Is this the first one
you're gonna grill now?
The first one.
Always scares me 'cause it looks so thin
but it does kind of puff up a little bit.
How long are you going
to grill it for, do you think?
I have to be quite careful.
Just a couple of minutes, I think,
so that it's still very thin.
-Wow.
-Fantastic. Good luck.
Thank you very much.
-[chuckles] I'll be here layering.
-Thank you.
Right. [laughs]
I'm going in to the oven.
My tins don't fit. Come on.
Yes! Yes, they do.
[Noel] With multiple cakes to make...
Right, I'm going in finally.
[Noel] ...and each one featuring
numerous layers of batter
grilling must be meticulous.
Don't look, don't look.
[Noel] But the intense direct heat...
can be tricky to control.
[Steph] I'll try not to be scared.
It's just I don't know
what temperature to have it at.
[Noel] If they are over-grilled,
the sponge layers
will be rubbery and tough.
So, we're just winging it at the moment.
[Noel] But undercooking
will cause the layers to collapse.
[Henry] I think that's done.
[David] Not good.
Ow! Hot.
[David] I don't have enough cake mix.
I mean...
yeah, it's a bit of a problem.
I don't wanna wreck any more layers
because I kind of need all my mixture,
so I'm gonna have a half a cake
at this point, I think.
[blows party whistle]
Bakers, you're halfway through.
Halfway through.
-Fun.
-[both blow party whistles]
Hope it's all right inside.
Too late now.
This is layer two.
Or 3,002.
I'm gonna brush a tiny wee bit of rum
onto every third layer.
I don't wanna put too much in,
otherwise it'll go wet.
I'm weighing out the layers
so that they're all the same weight
and therefore depth.
Each layer needs to be
kind of identical
for that pattern to work.
I think it's going okay,
but until you actually
take it out of the tin
you don't really know
how it's done anyway.
But I've got four more layers
left on this cake.
Right, next one.
[Sandi] Not only do the bakers need
to keep an eye on the grill...
I burnt my first layers.
You can see the remnants in the sink.
Ooh, the jam.
[Sandi] ...they have to
make their fillings...
[Michael] I'm making the lime curd
which is going to be the glue
that holds my cake together.
[Sandi] ...whilst also preparing
their decorations.
[Rosie] This is just like blowing glass.
It sets really quite quickly.
That may be okay.
I'm just making my marzipan.
[Alice] Have like a bonfire,
carnival, fireworks.
I don't know how Alice produces such
good things when there's stuff everywhere.
It's nice and tidy
round here as usual.
You don't look silly at all. Just--
If that drops on the eggs...
Oh, my God.
[Noel] We can do this.
I can only move my eyes.
I feel like a painting in the background.
You know when the eyes
follow you around the room.
-Hmm.
-Are you listening to me?
-I... I am.
-On a scale of one to ten,
how much do you enjoy our chats?
Eleven.
Yes!
There you go. Mwah. [chuckles]
[sniffs] Burning.
Burning, burning, burning.
There's definitely burning going on.
Something is burning.
I'm not-- I'm not burning.
Who's burning?
What?
It's only had two minutes.
There's nothing
I can do with that, is th--
No, I'm gonna bin that.
But all my layers are gonna
have to be thinner now.
Argh!
[Sandi] Right, my lovely Sarawak people.
You got one hour left.
[Sandi] Whilst Rosie has to start
her last cake all over again...
I don't understand what happened,
so I need to just watch it really closely.
I'm stopping now.
[Sandi] ...the others
have finally finished with their grills
and are about to find out
if their layer cakes...
have been a success.
Yes!
It's not raw. It's not raw.
I am happy enough with that.
Definitely more rubbery than I was hoping.
Like, that's--
That's a rainbow, I think.
It's just the chopping up
that creeps me out
because if you do it wrong,
that's it, game over.
[Noel] If they don't cut and shape
their cakes with accuracy...
Three-and-a-half centimetres.
[Noel] ...and precision...
[David] You want a really sharp knife
for cutting this cake.
[Noel] ...their intricate
patterned designs won't work.
This is my little cutting guide.
My dad made it.
I told him the measurements
in a bit of a panic,
saying, "I can't cut these things,"
so my dad made me one,
which... Yeah, I'm really lucky.
[David] This is a bread slicer
so you can do perfect slices.
I think it's all gonna be about
the visual now. I need to get it right.
[Alice] Got to remember
how I do my patterns now.
I want them to go together.
It's not perfect at all,
but it'll have to do.
[David] Considering how little cake
I've got, I'm wasting quite a lot.
[Sandi] Do you think it's a little small?
No, I think that's all
you want to eat of this...
Sweet, rubbery...
Wow, not really selling
grilled cake to me.
-No.
[Rosie] Nearly a drop.
The triangles are stressful.
It's really, really hard.
[Sandi] Bakers...
You have 15 minutes remaining.
-[Sandi] Crack on.
-[whistling]
I've got a cake, I've got a cake,
I've got a cake, I've got a cake.
[Alice] I just need to get it decorated.
Quarter of an hour
is not really enough time to finish
but gonna have something.
I forgot to put lime curd on it
before I lifted up the marzipan,
like an idiot.
[Steph] It is what it is.
[exhales sharply]
It's messy but it's on.
[David] Mine's so much smaller
than everyone else's.
Yeah.
[Rosie] Not gonna be anywhere
near as neat as when I practised,
so that is always very gutting.
[Henry] If I was in the trenches,
I'd say I'd lost a leg but I'm not dead.
[Alice] This is just not fun, you know.
[Henry] And there's a small chance
of a full recovery, perhaps.
[Michael] Struggling a bit,
but I'm still going.
[Sandi] Right, bakers. Time is up.
Please place your kek lapis Sarawak
at the end of your workstations.
Well, it's something, isn't it?
It's done.
[Noel] Well done, kids.
-Well done, everybody.
-That was a long one.
God, that could've gone worse.
Come here, darling.
Come here.
[Sandi] The bakers'
Sarawak-style layer cakes
now face the judgment of Paul and Prue.
Steph, would you like to bring up
your Showstopper, please?
[Paul] The blocks that you've rotated
needed more filling in between
because there's big gaps there
which shouldn't be there.
You almost wanna grout round it.
-Yeah.
-Just makes it neater, you know.
I agree about the little gaps,
but the pattern is very Sarawakian
and I think it looks lovely.
-The sponges are delicious. They're soft.
-They're very good.
I have to tell you,
the marzipan is brilliant.
-Just delicious.
-The decoration's good as well.
-I think you've done a good job.
-Very good, Steph.
-Thank you, Steph.
-Thank you.
I think it looks a bit messy.
-[Rosie] Yeah.
-[Paul] It's not neat at all.
Erm, you can see the colours,
they're vibrant enough,
but I just wanna see what it's like inside
when we cut it.
[Prue] That is a very complicated
pattern to attempt.
That's got quite a tasty flavour, that.
What is the jam inside?
[Rosie] It's nectarine jam.
[Paul] You can't identify it,
you know it's there.
-Gives it a little zing, you know?
-It's very nice, the taste.
[Paul] The idea's sound enough
it just hasn't been executed
to a better level
to really shine off
what you've actually done
'cause there's a lot of work there.
It's a shame you didn't add
a little bit more colour
into the top and bottom layers
because that bottom layer there
looks quite raw, rubbery.
I drizzled rum between the layers,
so it has got a bit of moisture in it.
-[Paul] Oh, did you?
-Yeah.
There are layers,
but because they're all the same colour,
or almost exactly the same colour
it looks just like one solid slab.
It is a little stodgy.
Very claggy, very stodgy in the mouth.
I think the soaking
was probably a bad idea.
It's almost like all one now,
and a very dense piece.
So, when you eat it, it's a bit rubbery.
Overall, it looks wonderful.
It's just a pity about the texture.
Okay.
-Thanks, Michael.
-Thank you, Michael.
It's all right, it's fine.
What's this?
-[Henry] Just cake.
-[Paul] Another cake.
[Henry] There's a lot of cake there.
-It's all cake. Yeah.
-[Prue] It's all cake.
Well, I think that's really clever.
Looks like a stack of egg sandwiches
in an afternoon tea.
That's what I was going for, yeah.
[Paul] Is that what you were going for?
-Shut up.
-[all laughing]
Henry, I think that is
a really nice textured cake.
It's not stodgy,
the lemon and lime comes through,
it's really nice.
[Paul] Actually, I'm quite impressed.
-It's not perfect.
-No.
But it's been executed pretty well,
and actually, you do get a nice flavour
in the mouth and nice texture,
certainly not rubbery.
It breaks apart like a cake would.
Even though it's cut
into so many different pieces.
I actually think you've done
a pretty good job.
Well, I'll tell you, my first impression
is that it's architecturally
very interesting,
and I love the shape of it
and everything else.
My next is that it is very small.
I mean, this was
supposed to be for a party,
a big cake for a lot of people.
-Is this for Sandi's family?
-[all laughing]
Sylvanians still have to eat, you know.
There's meant to be more,
but I had an issue with some of my layers.
I lost quite a bit.
[Paul] The lines that
you've managed to achieve
and the colour definitions that
you've got here are pretty good.
Nice and spicy.
Think it could be a bit sweeter, really.
[Paul] It's a little bit rubbery.
It's perfectly edible
if you had a piece like this.
You couldn't eat much more than that,
but I quite like the flavour
and I love the neatness of it.
I think it's very neat.
[Prue] Just think the whole thing
is not quite sweet enough.
If you eat a tiny little bit of icing
with it, it's great.
I think it's extremely neat.
The detail in it is incredible.
The way you've gone to all this trouble
to get this pattern going,
and then the lines on the top
are beautiful.
The painting, the decorations
of the fireworks look good.
It looks a bit dry,
and that's my only concern at the moment.
The layers are so thin
and they're so small,
your little blocks or strips,
that it almost looks like weaving.
That is pretty clever, isn't it?
[Paul] That is very, very good.
-Is there almond in there as well?
-[Alice] Yeah.
-[Paul] Tastes like marzipan.
-[Prue] Mmm.
That works really well.
The marzipan gives it that petit four...
almost texture, flavour in your mouth.
I think the detail in there
is exceptional.
It's fine, vibrant, and very artistic.
-Very good.
-[Prue] I think it really works.
-Well done.
-Thank you very much.
-Thank you. Thank you.
-Well done.
Phew.
I mean, you never know.
I did lose Technical,
my buns weren't amazing,
but I think I might just
have saved myself.
If I got Star Baker, it would be nice
'cause that's the final, like,
tick list of being here.
I mean, it'd be a lovely
little bonus to get that.
Paul did tell me to shut up, though.
He got me back.
'Cause I told him to shut up
in the Signature, so... fair play.
[Michael] I was going to say
I got a grilling,
but I tried to hold that one in.
Did all right in the Signature,
just wasn't as good.
Didn't do well in the Technical, surprise.
And then I've done okay in the Showstopper
but now okay isn't enough.
Myself, Alice, Michael and Rosie
have all had positives and negatives.
Anyone could go. I could go this week.
It's really, really close, I think.
-[Noel] Well, that was pretty good.
-I thought it was fantastic.
[Paul] Rosie's was a bit messy.
I think she's put herself down
into a spot of trouble.
She was so ambitious, I mean
the way she cut her cakes was
much more complicated and difficult
and she didn't succeed.
It's a pity.
I thought Michael's was quite neat,
but you weren't
as impressed with it, were you?
Michael's chief problem was
there were lots of layers in that
but they all run together
'cause they're squished, aren't they?
Just blends in with the marzipan,
doesn't it?
Erm, I think point in question is,
when you look at David's,
look how neat that is.
It's a shame they're very small
and they were a bit rubbery.
I liked the decoration with cake on cake
that Henry did.
-[Prue] Oh, I loved it.
[Paul] The taste of Henry's was very good.
You get that lime and lemon,
perfect combination.
The colours balanced up
beautifully as well.
As was Steph's, I mean she had a problem
with the filler on that one
but you can see every single line,
every single colour in there as well.
I think Alice has done a great job
on this challenge, actually.
'Cause now she was in terrible trouble
coming in to the Showstopper.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-[Prue] Oh, she must have saved herself
surely, that was such a good cake.
Who might be in line for Star Baker?
For me, I think Rosie and Mike
are in a little bit of trouble.
And I think Alice has saved herself.
And I think any one
of the other three could be Star Baker
and that includes Henry, Steph,
possibly David.
Hello, bakers. I’ve got the fantastic job
of announcing who's won Star Baker.
And the person who's won Star Baker
this week is...
Henry.
-[clapping]
-[David laughs] Well done.
Shut up.
[all laughing]
So, this leaves me with the horrible job,
and it gets so hard now.
I’m afraid the person
who is leaving us is...
Michael.
-I’m so sorry.
-It's okay. It's okay.
It was my time, it's okay. It’s okay.
[Michael] I feel okay.
My head is held high and I am so happy
and so proud... and so tired. [laughs]
I’m going out laughing,
and that’s brilliant.
It’s totally fine.
Don’t worry. Don’t worry.
I wish I was a pretty crier
you know, like in black-and-white
French films when it’s raining.
But instead, I’m like... crying ‘cause
I couldn’t make a kek lapis Sarawak.
[Paul] It’s pretty sad, Michael going.
He did okay, but overall,
the standard this week has got better,
and I think from now on in,
we’re gonna see
a different standard of baking.
[Henry] That went well.
That’s my tick list now.
I don’t actually need to do any more.
I've ticked everything off.
[Noel] Alice has made me cry now.
[Michael] Oh, no.
I’m just gutted, erm,
that Michael’s left, yeah.
He’s just been so supportive,
I don’t think I’d have got this far,
to be honest, without Michael.
I’m so glad to be going through.
I can’t quite believe it.
I think it’s gonna
take a while to sink in,
kind of week eight of the Bake Off. What?